OKTA-631100 New ISV submission experience with OIN Wizard (#4415)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/submit-oin-app/main/index.md

1. Click **Build new OIN integration**. The OIN Wizard appears.
1. From the **Select your protocol** section, select **<StackSnippet snippet="protocol-name" inline/>**.
    > **Note:** If you want to change the protocol instructions on this page, select the protocol you want from the **Instructions for** dropdown list on the right.
1. Click **Next: Configure your integration**.

> **Note:** Currently, you can only configure one protocol per OIN integration submission.

### Configure your integration

Continue with the OIN Wizard and configure your integration:

#### OIN catalog properties

1. Click the **OIN catalog properties** dropdown arrow and specify the following OIN catalog information:

    | <div style="width:150px">Property</div>| Description  |
    | ----------------- | ------------ |
    | **Display name** `*` | Provide a name for your integration. This is the main title used for your integration in the OIN.<br>The maximum field length is 64 characters. |
    | **Description** `*` | Give a general description of your application and the benefits of the Okta integration. See [App description guidelines](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#app-description-guidelines). |

>     | **Logo** `*` | Upload a PNG, JPG, or GIF file of a logo to accompany your integration in the catalog. The logo file must be less than one MB. See [Logo guidelines](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#logo-guidelines). |

Author: Yes, I am more comfortable with "1 MB" too :-)  But according to our style guide, I gotta write out the number word for numbers less than 10.

 > **Note**: A variable can include a complete URL (for example, `https://example.com`). This enables you to use more globally useful variables such as `${org.baseURL}`.

#### <StackSnippet snippet="protocol-name" inline/> properties

Continue with the OIN Wizard and configure your protocol settings:

1. Click the **<StackSnippet snippet="protocol-name" inline/> properties** dropdown arrow and specify the following protocol properties:

    <StackSnippet snippet="protocol-properties" />

1. Click **Get started with testing** to save your edits and move to the testing experience where you need to enter your integration test details.

### Enter test information

From the OIN Wizard **Test your integration experience** section, specify information required for testing your integration. An OIN analyst uses this information to verify your integration after submission.

#### Test information

A dedicated test admin account in your app is required for Okta integration testing. This test account needs to be active beyond the submission period in case Okta needs to update or troubleshoot your app integration. Ensure that the test admin account has:

> * Privileges to SSO configuration in your test app

Reviewer: maybe "to configure SSO"?

* Privileges to administer test users in your test app

See [Test account guidelines](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#test-account-guidelines).

> > **Note**: This admin account is in your app and not an account in Okta.

Reviewer: Ha, I think this is super useful

> 1. Click the **Testing information** dropdown arrow and specify the following test account details:

Reviewer: Should be automatically expanded on load in our current implementation, with no need to click the dropdown arrow

    | <div style="width:100px">Property</div> | Description  |
    | --------------- | ------------ |
    | **Test account URL** `*`  | A static URL to sign in to your app. An OIN analyst goes to this URL and uses the account credentials you provide in the subsequent fields to sign in to your app. |
    | **Username** `*`  | The username for your test admin account. The OIN analyst signs in with this username to run tests. The preferred account username is `isvtest@okta.com`. |
    | **Password** `*`  | The password for your test admin account |

>     | **Support contact** `*`  | Provide an email for Okta to contact your company about your integration. This email isn't expose in the OIN catalogs or to your customers. Okta uses this email to contact your company for issues during the QA testing phase or for ongoing maintenance of your integration in the OIN. See [Escalation support contact](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#customer-support-contact-guidelines) in the customer support-contact guidelines. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Support contact** `*`  | Provide an email for Okta to contact your company about your integration. This email isn't exposed in the OIN catalogs or to your customers. Okta uses this email to contact your company for issues during the QA testing phase or for ongoing maintenance of your integration in the OIN. See [Escalation support contact](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#customer-support-contact-guidelines) in the customer support-contact guidelines. |
```

### How to test an IdP flow

Test the IdP sign-in flow as a customer end-user persona. Use an end user that you [assigned to your integration](#assign-test-users-to-your-integration-instance). This sign-in flow initiates from the Okta End-User Dashboard.

#### Sign in with the IdP flow

Test case preconditions:

* App integration supports IdP SSO
* [App integration instance was generated in the OIN Wizard](#generate-the-instance-for-the-idp-flow) and sign-on options are configured
* The test end user used to sign in to the app was [assigned to the integration](#assign-test-users-to-your-integration-instance)

To test the SSO IdP flow:

1. Open a new incognito window in your browser.
1. Go to your developer-edition Okta org. For example: `https://dev-12345678.okta.com`
1. Sign in to the Okta End-User Dashboard as an end user that was assigned the integration.
    > **Note**: If you sign in as a non-admin user to your Okta org from a browser, the End-User Dashboard appears.
1. Confirm that your app tile appears on the Okta End-User Dashboard.

> 1. Click your app tile and confirm that you can sign in successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click your app tile and confirm that you can sign in.
```

There are two options to sign in with the SP-initiated flow:

1. Direct URL: [Sign in with a direct URL for the SP flow](#sign-in-with-a-direct-url-for-the-sp-flow)
2. Sign-in page: [Sign in with the sign-in page for the SP flow](#sign-in-with-the-sign-in-page-for-the-sp-flow)

#### Sign in with a direct URL for the SP flow

Test case preconditions:

* App integration supports SP-initiated SSO
* [App integration instance was generated in the OIN Wizard](#generate-the-instance-for-the-idp-flow) and sign-on options are configured
* The test end user was [assigned to the integration](#assign-test-users-to-your-integration-instance)

To test the SP-initiated flow with a direct URL:

1. Open a new incognito window in your browser.
1. Go to the app sign-in page directly from the browser URL address field (for example: `https://berryfarm.example.org/strawberry/signin`). The browser redirects you to Okta for authentication.
1. Sign in with Okta credentials for the test end user.

> 1. Confirm that you've successfully signed in to the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that you are signed in to the app.
```

    > **Note**: If you have multiple apps in the OIN catalog, verify that you've signed in to the correct app.
1. Sign out of your app.
1. Verify that you're able to sign out and are redirected to the sign-in page.

#### Sign in with a sign-in page for the SP flow

Test case preconditions:

* App integration supports SP-initiated SSO
* [App integration instance was generated in the OIN Wizard](#generate-the-instance-for-the-idp-flow) and sign-on options are configured
* The test end user was [assigned to the integration](#assign-test-users-to-your-integration-instance)

To test the SP-initiated flow with a sign-in page:

1. Open a new incognito window in your browser.
1. Go to the app sign-in page.
1. Initiate the sign-in action from the sign-in page (such as clicking **Sign in with Okta**).
1. Sign in with Okta credentials for the test end user.

> 1. Confirm that you've successfully signed in to the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that you are signed in to the app.
```

1. Sign out of your app.
1. Verify that you're able to sign out and are redirected to the sign-in page.

### How to test JIT provisioning

To test Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning, you need to execute the test cases with two personas: as a customer admin user and as an end user. The customer admin user sets up the new end user in Okta. And the new end user signs in to the app. The new user profile is provisioned in the app without extra admin intervention.

Test JIT provisioning with either SSO flows:

- With IdP SSO flow: [Test JIT provisioning with the IdP flow](#test-jit-provisioning-with-the-idp-flow)
- With SP-initiated SSO flow: [Test JIT provisioning with the SP flow](#test-jit-provisioning-with-the-sp-flow)

#### Test JIT provisioning with the IdP flow

Test case preconditions:

* App integration supports IdP flow
* App integration supports JIT provisioning
* [App integration instance was generated in the OIN Wizard](#generate-the-instance-for-the-idp-flow) and sign-on options are configured
* The [Sign in with the IdP flow](#sign-in-with-the-idp-flow) test case was executed successfully
* A new test user profile that isn't in Okta or in your app

> To test JIT provision with the IdP flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test JIT provisioning with the IdP flow:
```

1. As an app admin user, verify that the test user doesn't exist in the app. Sign in to your app and verify that there's no user with the same unique attributes as your new test user.
1. As an Okta admin user, sign in to your Okta org.
1. Go to **Directory** > **People** and add the new test user in Okta. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/en-us/content/topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-add-users.htm) for complete instructions.
1. Go to **Applications** > **Applications** > your app integration instance in the Admin Console.
1. From your app integration instance page, click the **Assignments** tab.
1. Click **Assign** > **Assign to People**.
1. Find the name of the new test user and click **Assign** next to their name. A dialog box appears with the title **Assign {app-name} to People**.
1. Click **Save and Go Back**.
1. On the **People** page, click **Done**.
1. Open a new incognito window in your browser.
1. Go to your Okta org URL.
1. Sign in to the Okta org as the new user that was assigned to the app integration. The End-User Dashboard appears.
1. Confirm that your app tile appears on the Okta End-User Dashboard.

> 1. Click your app tile and confirm that you can sign in successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click your app tile and confirm that you can sign in.
```

1. Sign out of your app.
1. Verify that you're able to sign out and are redirected to the sign-in page.
1. Verify that the new user was created in your app with supported attributes passed from the Okta profile, such as the user's name and email.

#### Test JIT provisioning with the SP flow

Test case preconditions:

* App integration supports SP flow
* App integration supports JIT provisioning
* [App integration instance was generated in the OIN Wizard](#generate-the-instance-for-the-idp-flow) and sign-on options are configured
* The [Sign in with the SP flow](#sign-in-with-a-direct-url-for-the-sp-flow) test case was executed successfully
* A new test user profile that isn't in Okta or in your app

> To test JIT provision with the SP flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test JIT provisioning with the SP flow:
```

1. As an admin user, sign in to your Okta org.
1. Go to **Directory** > **People** and add the new test user in Okta. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/en-us/content/topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-add-users.htm) for complete instructions.
1. Go to **Applications** > **Applications** > your app integration instance in the Admin Console.
1. From your app integration instance, click the **Assignments** tab.
1. Click **Assign** > **Assign to People**.
1. Find the name of the new test user and click **Assign** next to their name. A dialog box appears with the title **Assign {app-name} to People**.
1. Click **Save and Go Back**.
1. On the **People** page, click **Done**.
1. Open a new incognito window in your browser.
1. Go to the app sign-in page directly from the browser URL address field (for example: `https://berryfarm.example.org/strawberry/signin`). The browser redirects you to Okta for authentication.
1. Sign in with Okta credentials for the new test user that was assigned to the app integration.

> 1. Confirm that you can sign in to the app successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that you can sign in to the app.
```

> **Note:** You don't have to generate a new app integration for every failed test scenario. If you have an environment issue or if you forgot to assign a user, you can fix your configuration and run the tests again. Generate a new instance only if you need to modify an SSO property, such as an integration variable, a redirect URI, or an ACS URL.

It's good practice to deactivate your app integration instance (from the failed test cases) from the **Applications** > **Applications** page of the Admin Console. You can later delete the test app integration instance if you want to clean your app integration list.

To receive help with failed test cases or server error messages, post your questions on the [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com/) or submit your questions to <developers@okta.com>.

If you have questions or need more support with the OIN submission process, contact the Okta OIN team at <oin@okta.com>.

## Submit your integration

> After you've successfully tested your integration, you're ready to submit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you successfully test your integration, you're ready to submit.
```

1. Close the incognito browser window and return to the **Test your integration experience** page in the OIN Wizard.
1. Select **I certify that I have successfully completed the required tests**.
1. Click **Submit integration**.
1. Click **Close wizard** from the **Thank you for your submission** confirmation page. This takes you back to the **Your OIN Integrations** dashboard.

After you submit your integration, an OIN analyst performs an initial review of your submission details. They send an email to you with any submission issues to correct.

> After the initial review is completed and all the issues are corrected, the submission moves to the QA testing phase. An OIN analyst uses the test information that you provided in the OIN Wizard to test your integration. They send you an email with any test failures or issues to correct. See [Understand the submission review process](/docs/guides/submit-app-overview/#understand-the-submission-review-process).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the initial review is complete and all the issues are correct, the submission moves to the QA testing phase. An OIN analyst uses the test information that you provide in the OIN Wizard to test your integration. They send you an email with any test failures or issues to correct. See [Understand the submission review process](/docs/guides/submit-app-overview/#understand-the-submission-review-process).
```

> * If you previously submitted your SSO integration using the OIN Manager, you can [edit your published integration only with the OIN Manager](/docs/guides/submit-sso-app/openidconnect/main/#update-your-published-integration).

To update a submitted integration:

1. Sign in to your [developer-edition Okta org](/login/) as a user with admin privileges.
1. Go to **Applications** > **Your OIN Integrations** in the Admin Console.
1. Click your integration to update from the dashboard. The OIN Wizard appears.
1. Go to the OIN Wizard page that you want to update.
1. From the **This integration is read-only** information box, select **Edit integration**.
1. Update the desired properties in the OIN Wizard.
1. Click **View testing information** or **Close wizard** to save the modified integration. When you save the updated properties, the integration submission status is set to `Draft`.
1. Go to **Applications** > **Your OIN Integrations** in the Admin Console and confirm that your integration submission is in `Draft` status.

> 1. Retest your integration successfully before you submit it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Retest your integration before you submit it again.
```

### Update integration considerations

* If you have an existing SAML SSO integration and you want to update advanced properties that aren't available in the OIN Wizard, contact <oin@okta.com>.

> * When you update an integration that has already been published, be mindful to preserve backwards compatibility for your integration. Older instances of your integration could be in use by Okta customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When you update an integration that is already published, be mindful to preserve backwards compatibility for your integration. Older instances of your integration could be in use by Okta customers.
```

>    If your update introduces a new variables and you are using dynamic URLs, ensure that your test cases cover a variety of scenarios with different possible values for those variables. The newly introduced variables aren't populated for older instances of your integration. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If your update introduces new variables and you're using dynamic URLs, ensure that your test cases cover a variety of scenarios with different possible values for those variables. The newly introduced variables aren't populated for older instances of your integration. For example:
```

* [Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)](http://docs.oasis-open.org/security/saml/Post2.0/sstc-saml-tech-overview-2.0.html)

    > **Notes:**
    > * SAML integrations must use SHA256 encryption for security. If you're using SHA-1 for encryption, see our guide on how to [Upgrade SAML Apps to SHA256](/docs/guides/updating-saml-cert/).

>     > * The OIN Wizard doesn't support advanced SAML integrations, such as integrations with more than three app instance variables. Some ISVs use many app instance variables to help identify app instances for each of their customers.

Reviewer: Hm, this sort of makes it sound like our SAML support isn't as good as we'd like it to be, when in reality we're intentionally limiting it for security and usability reasons. Plus there's not really a well-defined concept of "advanced" vs. "basic" SAML integrations even though we've been using it a bit internally recently to refer to our full internal config vs. what we expose in the submission API.

Maybe something like, "The OIN Wizard places certain limits on submissions. For example, submissions are limited to three app instance variables. Some ISVs..."

Author: updated based on suggestions

To test Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning, you need to execute the test cases with two personas: as a customer admin user and as an end user. The customer admin user sets up the new end user in Okta. And the new end user signs in to the app. The new user profile is provisioned in the app without extra admin intervention.

> Test JIT provisioning with either SSO flows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test JIT provisioning with either SSO flow:
```
